We're going down!Chaplain Burke.
I just transferred to the chapel
here on the Navy Yard.
Her body was on that plane.
What's her name?
First Lieutenant
Gabriela Flores.
There were only two Marines,
and those were three cases.
And Flores wasn't one of them.
We will do whatever
it takes to find her
and bring her home.
No Marine is ever left behind.
McGEE: Flores was blindsided
in an attack
on a girls' school
she was helping rebuild.
It was the people
she was working with?
That's the teacher.
Anyone that worked at that
school could be in on this.
That's gotta be here.
BURKE:
Are those children?!
She was trying to save them,
and she got caught.
Don't come back without her.
Go ahead. Ask.
Ask what?
Tell Him
what you're thinking.
In my experience,
He's not a big talker,
but His actions speak volumes.
His actions have been
questionable.
Your daughter, Gabriela,
tried to save those kids.
She dedicated her life
to serving her country.
If she's any indication
of His actions,
then I have to disagree.
She should have gone back
to base that night.
She should have
followed orders.
Yes.
But by following
her instincts,
maybe she was following
His orders instead.
Can Gibbs bring her back?
Well, look,
I haven't known
Special Agent Gibbs
for very long,
but he's a good man and he's
working with the best.
So I have faith
they they will do
everything they can
to find her.
I know they'll
find her, Chaplain.
The question is
will she be alive?
[door opens]
Agent DiNozzo,
what is it?
Captain.
Special Agent Gibbs.
Welcome to the belly
of the beast.
Smooth ride?
Till somebody started
shooting at us.
It's Kabul's welcome wagon.
Next time, bake cookies.
What's the status?
Got some locals
to change their story.
And they confirm
Lieutenant Flores
and the two girls were taken.
Did they identify
the insurgents?
Changing their story is
one thing,
but giving up names
gets folks killed.
People are afraid to talk.
So why keep Flores alive?
Information.
Radicals don't like
Westerners
opening up
their kids' eyes.
167 schools were hit last year
throughout the Middle East.
More than half were in
Afghanistan alone.
And as a FET,
Flores knows where
new ones are
being built.
FETs act as a conduit
between the locals
and the Corps.
I'll introduce you
to Staff Sergeant Littleton.
She was there that night.
Schools can be a big part
of what they do.
Good news is the two girls that
Flores saved were just found
about seven clicks due south.
Abandoned roadside.
They're being transported here
for treatment.
Are they all right?
Dehydrated, scared,
clearly tortured.
But alive.
We'll need to see them.
As long as you're prepared
for what you'll see.
I grew up in this region.
Looks like you turned out okay.
I can hold my own.
Copy that.
Staff Sergeant Littleton.
Special Agent Gibbs.
C.O. said you wanted
to see me?
Yeah. Sit down.
Understand that you were with
Lieutenant Flores
the night the school was
attacked.
I already gave a statement to
the Investigative Unit, sir.
Yeah, I know,
but I just got here
and I'm anxious to hear.
There's nothing
really different to say.
Just trying
to get a clear picture.
Yes, sir.
A bunch of us evacuated before
all hell broke loose.
I thought we were
all together in a seven-ton.
I kept yelling her name,
but she didn't answer.
She couldn't answer.
If I'd have stayed with Gabby,
she might not be in this mess.
Or you might be dead.
Know that woman?
Soraya?
She's one of
the fortunate ones.
Fortunate? How?
She wasn't at school
that day.
She was seeing her family
outside Kabul.
Have you seen her since?
No, sir.
We think that she used
being a teacher
to know when to strike.
The kids trusted Soraya.
We all did.
She took advantage
of that trust.
And she succeeded, sir.
At being a coward.
Now it's our turn.
While we may believe
that everyone
should be taught
to read and write,
there are still some
in the Middle East
who do not see it that way.
Yeah, but on
the other hand,
back in the Crusades,
the Knights Templar,
they were willing to kill
for what they held sacred.
Tragically,
in both instances,
innocent children suffer.
BURKE:
A battle for young
hearts and minds.
And Lieutenant Flores
found herself
at the very center
of that battle.
Look at you two--
hitting Wong's after hours
and talking the night away
like a couple of college coeds.
Commander Burke offers
a perspective
I find quite...
provocative.
Mm! I bet you do, Ducky.
[clears throat]
Anyway, we're tired
and waiting for answers.
That was Homeland Security.
The Jaysh El-Mo'mineen
have links to terror cells
in Yemen, Saudi Arabia
and the Philippines.
What's the next step?
Well, we need
one of those cells
to turn on our radicals.
The less that they
trust each other,
the more we can
destabilize them.
What about you, Tony?Me?
I hope you're not
wasting your time on
that bucket list
I keep hearing about.
TONY:
It's not a waste of time...
O ye of little faith.
Present company excluded,
of course.
Yeah, I am working
on bucket list.
Perhaps all this talk of
terrorism has me anxious
about certain insecurities.
You, DiNozzo?
Yes, me.
I know-- shocking--
but beneath this incredibly
masculine body armor,
there is a vulnerable do-gooder.
Vulnerable to...?
[chuckles]
Yeah, telling you would be like
Superman telling
Lex Luthor about his
vulnerability to Kryptonite.
It's not gonna happen.
So what is it, Clark Kent?
What are you so afraid of?
VANCE:
Good morning, Agent Gibbs.
Evening, Director.
That you in the background,
Mr. Secretary?
Hello, Gibbs.
Burning the candle
at both ends, sir.
Careful, people are gonna think
you care.
Nice scarf.
[chuckles]
Update.Boss, we got an i.d.
on our loving
Afghan teacher.
This is from a classified
military personnel file
on the school.
Full name is Soraya Zoranj.
Grew up in Baghlan,
Afghanistan.
Parents were killed
by the Russians
when she was a teenager.
Soraya also had two siblings:
An older brother, Osman,
who died in an IED explosion
two years ago,
and a younger
brother, Asa,
who's in the U.S.
on a student visa.
He's going
to law school
here in DC.
Talk to him.
Think he might keep in contact
with the big sis?
Find out.On it.
Ah, McGee, I love the smell
of coeds in the morning.
You need coffee, Tony.
So do I.
Working on Afghan time is
messing up our internal clocks.
I used to thrive on
all-night stakeouts
and sub-zero surveillance.
Maybe this is a sign something's
missing from my life.
Like what, frostbite?
You guys all set?Come on. The kid's
roommate told us
Asa spent all night
in the law library.
Might as well start there.
I hate libraries.
Another one of your fears?
Don't mock me.
What's to hate about libraries?
The smell gets me every time.
Yeah? What does
a library smell like?
Lonely smart people.
[chuckles]
Tony, that's our guy.
Soraya's brother.
Hey, kid-- NCIS.
We'd like to talk
to you for a second.
Can we ask you
a few questions?
Now I'm gonna spill
my latte!
Hey!
You cannot do this!
I've done nothing wrong!
Then why'd you run?
You owe me another coffee.
McGee...
It's funny we should find you
with your nose in a book.
Why is that funny to you?
All those kids wanted
was a chance to read.
Those girls...
just wanted to
learn something.
And yet, here you are,
enjoying all the benefits
of an American education.
You are a country
of extraordinary power.
I see.
Study the power,
find the weakness?
Let me ask you
a question.
You think those kids
really threaten
your way of life?
You know nothing
about our way of life,
our culture.
I know plenty.
I also know a
closed-minded,
radical parasite when I see one.
The kind that likes to prey
on innocent children.
[chuckling]
Your ignorance is amusing.
You know what I find amusing?
The idea of you in a tiny
little orange jumpsuit,
all alone in a six-by-six cell
crying for mommy.
I will not spend one minute
in your filthy prison.
I wouldn't bet on it.
Unless, of course, you want
to give us the name
of your little gang
of school haters.
How many are there?
We are few,
but we are very strong.
You cannot defeat us.
Say it again, DiNozzo.
You're breaking up.
Soraya's little brother--
we got him.
He tell you where his sister is?
Not yet.
But we're squeezing him.
Squeeze tighter.
I need her.
[static buzzes, crackles]She's the best hope we have...
DiNozzo!
GIBBS [quietly]:
Ah, damn it.
[sighs]
Hey, Matteson.
Gibbs.
I thought everyone was
going to the E-club.
They are.
Thought I'd get out instead.
Hmm...
You want me to take a look?
No.
But you can start the engine.
Make yourself useful.
[engine sputters]
You sure you don't want me to...
Again.
[engine starts]
[chuckles]
You know, I really should
know better by now.
Yes, you should.
I'm headed to Pendleton soon.
I heard, uh,
maybe you're going there, too.
Okinawa, next week.
Wow.
Japan.
Well, good luck over there.
You know, Gibbs...
if you ever find yourself
in Japan, or...
you know, even if you don't...
I'll always be around.
Give me a call.
I'd like that.
ZIVA:
The girls, Gibbs.
Did you hear?
Hear what?
I had Tony.
I lost him.
The girls Flores saved--
they are here.
QUINCY:
Girls are both orphans.
Parents were killed
by insurgents.
What are their ages?
Ten and 13.
Already been through more
than anyone should
in a lifetime.
Hot grease was thrown
in the older one's face.
The other one's covered
in cigarette burns.
Their names are Kinah and Lala.
[speaking Pashtu]
Uh, we need to ask you
some questions.
Okay?
Do you remember
Lieutenant Flores?
Gabriela?
Gabby?
Gabby! Yes.She still there.
You go bring?
Gabby, Gabby-- she's...
she's still alive?
They're not... done yet.
Notify the commandant.
Tell him
we're a go.
Flores could
still be alive.
That's very good.
You know that you're
both safe here.
Can you tell us
about Gabby?
They hurt her.
No cry.
ZIVA:
Do you remember anything
about where these people
took you?
[sniffing]
It smelled... smelled bad?
Like what?
Vroom, vroom.
Car.
And ground, it was black.
Oil.
Ziva, we need a sample.
And then you get them
anything they want.
You never stop
smiling, okay?
Abby, did you get
the sample analysis?
McGee, I have decided that
I am never going to complain
about anything
ever, ever again.
How can I whine about the cost
of my DVD-by-mail service
when there's real
problems in this world?
Well, when you
put it that way.
Like, take this evidence,
for example.
Normally, I would whine
about not being able
to examine
the actual item.
But given that we
are 4,000 miles
from Afghanistan,
we have to settle for a basic
chemical breakdown
from the Marine unit.
And I took their breakdown
and I made lemonade.
Who knew that geochemistry
could be so cool?
You know, I actually took a
college class in fossil fuels.
Of course you did.
Just like the chemical
compositions of plant life
are unique to any given area,
crude oil deposits are like
a geographic fingerprint.
This is from outside
Kabul, Afghanistan,
on the Afghan
pipeline.
There was no oil where the girls
were found, so...
So it's probably where they
were being held captive.
And where Lieutenant Flores
still might be.
Commander?
Chaplain Burke? Hello?
Anybody here?
[imitating Paul Newman]:
Cool Hand Luke.
[chuckles]
Of course, You knew that.
You know, I could have used You
a couple months ago.
Got my head scrambled
pretty good.
Of course, I understand
You're a busy guy.
We haven't talked much.
That's my bad.
I'm doing the best I can
down here, you know.
For a DiNozzo.
Hopefully, living up to my end
of the bargain.
You do remember our bargain...?
Be nice to hear from You.
So You have a plan?
Anything You want
to share with me?
How about You let me know
I'm on the right track?
I'm not talking to myself?
You are so
predictable.
[with Southern accent]:
Well, I guess what we have here
is a failure to communicate.
Agent DiNozzo.
You looking for me?
Yeah.
[clears throat]
Chaplain.
Tell Joseph Flores
we think we know where
his daughter might be.
I'm getting
out of here.
VANCE:
Extraction team in place.
Zero hour.
That's what
they call it.
I'd like to take this time
to wish everyone luck.
Luck's for the unprepared,
Mr. Secretary.
Well, I'd rather have it
than not, General.
Game on.
Scopes and helmet cams.
Air support's
on standby.
Thermals indicate
five people.
The one on the ground's
probably Flores.
Okay. Let's do this.
[gunfire]
Corpsman!
[heavy gunfire]
Go! Go! Go!
Pressure.
You hang in there, Marine.
[groans]
SOLIDER:
I got him, sir.
Keep breathing, Captain.
Go, go, go!
[speaks Arabic command]
That's her.
GIBBS:
Lieutenant?
Fine, sir.
Your call.
Give me a reason.
So what's it gonna be?
Feed you to the locals,
lifetime at Gitmo,
or you die right here?
SOLIDER:
Target's secure!
Don't you say a word.
Oh, God...
How am I doing?
You're doing great, Captain.
Just hold on.
We're going to need three
more liters of O-neg.
I gotta get him
some lidocaine.
Did anybody call
for medevac?
It's on the way.
Ma'am, I can take it
from here-- step back.
Don't go, David.
I'm not leaving you.
Ma'am, I need you to please--I said I am not leaving!
You look at me, Captain.
Look at me.
That's right.
My mom and dad.
Tell them...
I'm sorry.
Where are they?
What are their names?
Come on. Stay with me.
Maryland.
They own a small motel
on the bay.
You have to tell them...
I love them.
I promise I will.
I promise I will tell
them everything.
[exhales]
We'll get you home.
[helicopter approaching]
Agent DiNozzo...
what is it?
We got her, sir.
[sighs]
Your daughter Gabriela--
she's alive.
[sighs]
Thank you.
God bless you.
She's alive!
Drink.
I have been, sir.
Well, drink some more.
There are some folks happy
to hear you're alive,
Lieutenant.
I know.
Your dad's pretty
happy, too.
I'm anxious to see him.
Yeah, I bet you are.
Quincy, sir...
he wouldn't be dead
if I hadn't...
[voice breaking]:
Quincy died doing
his job, Flores.
He was your
commanding officer.
That made you his
responsibility.
Why'd you do it--
running off
with the kids,
disobeying orders.
I didn't have a choice.
I knew what would happen
to those girls.
If I had to do it again...
You would.
Yes, sir.
People died because
of that teacher--
Marines.
What do you think
should happen to her?
Sir, that's not my decision.
Yeah, but you've thought
about it, right?
She should be held
accountable for her crimes.
Oh.
She should watch those girls
change the world in
positive ways
she never imagined.
That a punishment?
That's a gift, sir.
Punishment is knowing she could
have done the same.
You're rare, Flores.
Come on. Let's go home.
What?
Nothing.
Oh, no.
Definitely something. What?
You intrigue me.
Uh-oh.
Why?
When something's broken,
I want to fix it.
Well, I hate to break it
to you, Chaplain,
but you ain't got
enough tools in your woodshed.
Oh, you might be surprised.
[chuckles]
So how do I intrigue you?
In a naughty Catholic
schoolgirl kind of way
or because I'm in need
of what your kind calls
"spiritual guidance"?
Well, lucky for me,
the latter.
Well, you don't have
to worry about me.
I am rock solid
in the spirit department.
Mm, that's fascinating.
You know what's even more
fascinating?
No, what's that?
I don't believe you.
When you're ready to face
that fear, Agent DiNozzo,
I'm ready to face it with you.
[chuckles]
You know, I...
I was just trying to save them.
And you did.
Should've been me in that box.
No, Lieutenant.
And it should not have been
Captain Quincy either.
What's going on?
What's it say?
Helo went down.
Lost six Marines.
Where?
Okinawa, Japan.
Poor bastards
just got there.
I think that Matteson girl was
one of them.
I never actually talked to her,
but she beat three
of my course times.
She was good.
Hell of an athlete.
Gibbs, you remember
Matteson.
[echoing]:
...Matteson...
Present arms!
[praying in Arabic]
Welcome to my classroom.
Why am I here?
Instead of a direct flight
to Gitmo,
I thought we could talk.
Have a family reunion.
I have nothing to say.
When was the last time
you saw each other?
No, let me guess.
Terrorist convention in Toledo?
Mock me all you want,
Agent Gibbs,
you will never understand
our motivation.
You gained the trust of these
kids, and then you hurt 'em.
By teaching future generations
not to be influenced
by your histrionic lies?
In this country, teaching
children is a privilege.
In this country,
you waste money
sending your kids
to college to have fun.
They're taught
to think on their own.
They are rich, spoiled brats.
This is how you answer that?
You're radicals who maim and
kill innocent children
because they want to learn how
other people think?!
You think we do this
for ourselves?!
You come into our
villages and towns
with your disgusting
Western ideals.
You teach our children to
question their heritage,
to rely on the Internet
instead of the Koran.
Yes, this is our answer.
It is the only answer.
And you will see.
I'll see.
I'll see what?
You are here.
We are here.
Lieutenant Flores is here.
And our older brother
is here, too.
Asa, don't!
According to our file,
he's dead.
Well...
You think our fight is over.
But...
it has just begun.
Hey, look what the Corps
sent back.
Rough trip, Ziva?
"Rough" is
an understatement, McGee.
Lieutenant Flores is back.
As is Captain Quincy.
And there lies the scratch.
The rub.
"There lies the rub."
It's a classic.
Well, I need some rest.
No rest for the weary, Ziva.
Party isn't over yet.
Older brother-- talk to me.
Osman Zoranj, 38 years old.
Born in Helmand Province.
Fought with the Mujahideen for
seven years against the Soviets.
Raised to the rank
of commander.
Helped drive the Russian
occupiers out of Kabul.
War hero.
Until he joined the Taliban.
And he brought his brother
and sister with him.
Tell me something new.
McGEE:
Well, I got something here.
According to the DIA,
Osman was killed in
an apartment complex raid
in Gardez, Afghanistan,
two years ago.
Raid set off
a gas-line explosion.
Osman was among
two dozen dead.
Not according
to his siblings.
And you believe them?
Yeah.
D.C.?
You tell me.
Putting out a BOLO
on the "Oos-Mahn."
McGee,
we need Asa's cell records.
Already on it, boss.
Also alerting LEOs
at the train depots,
bus stations
and airports.
Ziva, Homeland and Metro PD.
This group is
up to something.
Find out what.
If Osman's little brother
had been in D.C.
the whole time...
He might know
where the big brother is.
Did you lose something, Gibbs?
Yeah, a knife.
Well, you always have one
in your pocket, right?
Well, this one's different.
There are others watching.
Nope.
Just us.
No record of this conversation.
Don't need one.
Let us get started, okay?
Where's that son of a bitch
brother of yours-- Osman?
Want a smoke?
No.
It is against Allah's wishes.
Yeah, well, it's against
fire regulations, too.
But if you want
one, go ahead.
It's okay.
Look at her.
Cigarette burns over
60% of her body.
In unspeakable places.
Look at it!
Go on, look at it,
you son of a bitch!
[grunting]
You cannot do this!
Stop, Agent Gibbs!
I got this, Leon!You're about to break
16 international laws right now!
He deserves it!
It doesn't matter!
His brother Osman
is dead anyway!
FBI took him down in a raid
about 20 minutes ago.
We went to tell his sister
Soraya, but it was too late.
She'd taken her life already.
She hanged herself
in her cell.
They're both gone.
My family is dead.
Fight's just begun, huh?
We were going to finish
what my sister had started.
How?
A bomb.
Electronically detonated.
My creation.
Where?
They are not dead.
Okay, jobs Osman had.
What'd he have access to?
He had several occupations.
Never as a school teacher.
Mainly as an auto mechanic.
Buses.
Museums and memorials, boss?
I want to know every school trip
scheduled today.That's a lot of kids.
Do it.
McGEE:
Park Service isn't showing
anything out of
the ordinary.
Couple of local junior highs.
Some professional tours.
I have something.
The National Consortium
for Independent Girls' Schools.
300 girls from
around the country
at the science museum.
That's it. When is it?
Now.
Let's go.
Class trip.
♪
[keypad beeping]
Give me the
phone, Osman.
Put the gun down,
or I hit the last number.
Ziva, get the kids off
the bus, nice and easy.
On it.
You don't want
to do this.
It must be done.
Then you'll die, too.
Then I will die a martyr
for the cause.
McGee.
Got it, boss.
[yells]
[phone beeps]
Signal-jammer, Osman.
That's why
your detonator's dead.
You could have killed me.
Coulda, shoulda...
didn't.
You are weak.
No.
Just better.
Cuff him.
Get him out of here.
Thank you.
That was the Commandant.
Tell him he still owes me dinner
from 16 years ago.
He called
to thank you personally.
[chuckles]
Think he called
to thank youpersonally.
It's protocol.
[laughs]
You wanted to
see me, Director?
I want you to take
some time off.
And do what?
I don't know.
Do something fun.
Fun?
Yeah.
Fun. Rest.
Recreate. Fish.
Build something.
I-- Whatever you do.
I do this, Leon.
Pass on the vacation.
I am having dinner with
Lieutenant Flores, though.
She's doing great.
Thanks, anyway.
And, Leon...
this is fun.
Do I really
have to do this?
Yes. Just
relax, breathe.
It's hot in here.
[chuckles]:
No, it's not.
I'm sweating.
Maybe I'm having a heart attack.
My left arm is tingling,
and I should go
to the infirmary.
You'd rather go see
a doctor than do this?
My God, D-DiNozzo,
you're shaking.
Of course
I'm shaking.
I'm having a heart attack.
You're terrified.
Very Special Agent Anthony
DiNozzo doesn't get scared.
I've jumped out
of airplanes,
dead-dropped onto
aircraft carriers,
and I've killed
people, sweetheart.
Lots of them.
I've gotten the plague,
kissed a transvestite,
and been tortured by the best
the Middle East has to offer.
And, still, you're shaking.
Okay.
It's time to
face my fears.
How bad can it be?
Bring it on,
Chaplain.
[kids crying, chattering]
[groans]
[gasps]
[Tony and Burke laugh]
Oh.
Congratulations,
Agent DiNozzo.
Your greatest fear is now
about to have
a snack of grapes
and cheese crackers.
You want to join them?
♪
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
and TOYOTA.
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org